1a)mkdir ev4
makes a directory named ev4

b)cd ev4
goes to the current directory ev4

c)mkdir 59
created a directory named 59

d)ls -l 59
checks if the directory 59 is there or not

e)i. cd - → Switches to previous working directory.
 ii. cd - → Switches back to the directory before last.
 iii. cd . → Stays in the current directory.
 iv. cd .. → Moves to parent directory.
 v. cd ~ → Goes to home directory.
 vi. cd / → Goes to root directory.
 vii. ls -l → Displays files in long listing format.
 viii. cd media → Enters media directory.
 ix. cd → Goes to home directory.
 x. pwd → Prints current directory path.
 xi. cd media → Enters media folder inside current directory.
 xii. cd /media → Goes to media directory using absolute path.
 xiii. ls -l → Shows detailed list of files.
 xiv. ls -al → Shows all files including hidden in long format.
 xv. cd ~/ev4/<rollno> → Moves to specified roll number folder.
 xvi. mkdir emptydummy → Creates emptydummy directory.
 xvii. mkdir dummy → Creates dummy directory.
 xviii. cd dummy → Enters dummy directory.
 xix. touch file1 → Creates file1.
 xx. touch file2 → Creates file2.
 xxi. ls -l → Lists files in long format.
 xxii. rm -i file2 → Deletes file2 with confirmation.
 xxiii. ls -l → Shows remaining files.
 xxiv. cd .. → Moves to parent directory.
 xxv. rm emptydummy → Fails because directory cannot be removed this way.
 xxvi. rmdir emptydummy → Deletes emptydummy directory.
 xxvii. rmdir dummy → Fails because dummy is not empty.
 xxviii. rm -r dummy → Deletes dummy directory with contents

2)cat>file1.txt
creates a file named file1.txt
type "My first line" inside this file

3)cat>file2.txt
creates a file named file2.txt
type "Hello Second line" inside this file

5)create a file named file3.txt
type "Hello line"

6)cat file1.txt file2.txt>file_combined.txt
the contents of both file to a file called
file_combined.txt

8) cat file3.txt >> file_combined.txt → Appends contents of file3.txt to file_combined.txt.

9) cat file_combined.txt → Displays contents of file_combined.txt.

10) grep -i hello file* → Searches for word "hello" (case-insensitive) in all files starting with file.

11) cp file1.txt ~/ev4 → Copies file1.txt to ev4 directory.

12) mv file_combined.txt combined → Renames file_combined.txt to combined.

13) chmod u+x combined → Gives execute permission to owner.

14) chmod g-r combined → Removes read permission from group.

15) chmod 777 combined → Gives full permissions to all users.

16) sudo useradd alice → Creates new user named alice.

17) sudo passwd alice → Sets password for alice.

18) sudo userdel alice → Deletes user alice.
